I want an application to implement a strategy to create winning portfolios of MLB entries for a given Draftkings slate of guaranteed prize pool contests. The portfolio should be constructed with diversification in mind, as due to the high top-heavy payout structure of these contests a single winning entry more than makes up for hundreds of losing entries, so we wish to maximize the probability of a single entry in our portfolio achieving an outlier outcome. 

Core features we will need:
- Model for player dependence. Batters in a lineup do not have independent scores, nor are their scores independent of the score of the opposing starting pitcher. We are then left with groups of 10 players (9 batters from one team and the pitcher they are opposing) where we must model dependence. Individual batter distributions are complicated and non-Gaussian, so trying to fit a joint distribution for a 10 player group is not practical. Instead, we wish to use Copula Theory, which allows us to specify the dependence structure and marginal distrubutions of players separately, and allows us to capture the tail dependence between players, which is vital since we're primarily interested in values at the extreme. Instead of fitting a 10 dimensional parametric copula, we would ike to build an empirical copula from the vast amount of historical data offered by Retrosheet (retrosheet.org). We rank the performance of each batting order slot and opposing pitcher for each historical game, then we can run simulations by sampling games directly. For example, we sample a game where the lead-off hitter performed in the 51st percentile, and the second hitter in the 39th, etc. Then these two player's simulated values would be the inverse cumulative distribution function of their marginal distributions at these percentiles.

- Model for pitchers. Pitcher's exhibit close to a Gaussian distribution. The actual distribution is not continuous, but it is close enough that using a Gaussian model is appropriate. Eventually we will model this distribution for each pitcher from player prop market data pulled from public websites. Until this feature is ready for full implementation, we can use either a randomly generated or publicly sourced mean and standard deviation projection as parameters to create the Gaussian distribution.

- Model for batters. Batter disributions do not follow the shape of any common parametric distributions. Eventually we will model this distribution for each batter from player prop market data pulled from public websites. Until this feature is ready for full implementation, we can use the following process:
1. Fit a continuous mixture distribution to each batter. Use a mixture of an exponential distribution and a Gaussian distribution. This model will have 4 parameters: θ → = ( w , λ , μ , σ ) , which are the weight between the exponential and Gaussian distributions, the rate parameter for the exponential, the mean of the Gaussian, and the standard deviation of the Gaussian respectively. 
2. Discretize the continuous distribution. Map continuous ranges to discrete values proportional to how often the values occur in the empirical distribution for all batters. 
3. Perform a principal component analysis on the parameter space ( w , λ , μ , σ ) using the data from the fitted distributions, and solve for the 2d plane spanned by the first two principal components. Then use a randomly generated or publicly sourced projected mean and standard deviation along with the 2d plane to solve for all 4 parameters of our distribution.

- Model for slate of games. Perform a Monte Carlo simulation for each player by sampling the copula and then using the player's marginal distribution. Concretely, sample from the empirical copula which yields a 10-dimensional vector of quantile values for the 10 players of a group. Use this quantile value for each player as the argument of their inverse cumulative distribution function, which will yield the player's score. Repeat this n times for each group.

- Portfolio creation. Use an iterative greedy approach to add lineups to the set, and will use Basin-Hopping to optimize individual lineups. For individual lineups, we maximize the probability that the lineup scores greater than or equal to a target score, subject to position and salary constraints. The objective function probability is estimated as the percentage of simulations where the lineup hits the target. Individual lineups are optimized using the Basin-Hopping algorithm m times in parallel, then choosing the best result. The basic steps of Basin-Hopping are:
1. Randomly assign the starting state
2. Perform a local optimization with a basic hill-climbing algorithm
3. Save the best result so far
4. Always accept the new local maxima as the new state if it's an improvement, and accept the new local maxima if it's worse with some probability, determined by the temperature parameter (similar to simulated annealing)
5. Mutate the current state
6. Repeat until a max number of iterations, or max number of iterations without an improvement

The key is to mutate the state enough that you can escape local maxima and enter other basins, but not so much that you're simply creating near-random lineups. We mutate by randomly swapping 3 players.Once an individual lineup is selected, remove the simulation iterations where the individual lineup succeeded. Then, select another lineup with the remaining simulation iterations and continue this process until we have the desired number of lineups in the portfolio.

